.TH coredns-ctl 1 "Oct 2024" "coredns-ctl 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
coredns-ctl \- Control and manage CoreDNS service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B coredns-ctl
[\fICOMMAND\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B coredns-ctl
is a utility for managing the CoreDNS service on Debian systems.
It provides convenient shortcuts for common operations like starting,
stopping, reloading, and monitoring CoreDNS.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B start
Start the CoreDNS service.
.TP
.B stop
Stop the CoreDNS service.
.TP
.B restart
Restart the CoreDNS service.
.TP
.B reload
Reload CoreDNS configuration (sends SIGUSR1).
.TP
.B status
Show the current service status.
.TP
.B logs
Show the last 50 log entries.
.TP
.B follow
Follow logs in real-time.
.TP
.B version
Show the CoreDNS version.
.TP
.B config
Show the Corefile location and contents.
.TP
.B validate
Validate the Corefile syntax.
.TP
.B help
Show help information.
.SH EXAMPLES
Start the CoreDNS service:
.PP
.nf
  sudo coredns-ctl start
.fi
.PP
Show the running configuration:
.PP
.nf
  coredns-ctl config
.fi
.PP
Reload the configuration after making changes:
.PP
.nf
  sudo coredns-ctl reload
.fi
.PP
Follow logs in real-time:
.PP
.nf
  sudo coredns-ctl follow
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR coredns (1),
.BR coredns-zone (1),
.BR coredns-validate (1),
.BR systemctl (1),
.BR journalctl (1)
.SH FILES
.I /etc/coredns/Corefile
.RS
CoreDNS configuration file.
.RE
.I /etc/systemd/system/coredns.service
.RS
CoreDNS systemd service file.
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
CoreDNS Debian Package Maintainers
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/coredns/coredns/issues
.SH LICENSE
Apache License 2.0
